[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: All right, so now we got
to the part that nobody wants to do but
everybody wants to talk about, is testing.
Nobody wants to do it, but they all,
yeah I test, we test, we got good tests.
You know our coverage is, you know 5%.
>> Students: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Mm, okay.
So we're gonna write some tests because
a component's not a component without
a test, right?
Yeah, you are like yeah right,
well we'll do that.
So let's go ahead and check out step four.
>> Scott Moss: This one's
actually really cool.
Testing is kind of boring but
I actually enjoy testing with this set up.
It's really cool, in my opinion.
>> Scott Moss: So before we talk about it,
let's just talk about tests
in general with this stuff.
So testing components.
So we're gonna be creating, so
the fact that we decided to
make everything a module and I think I've
repeating this all day but I just like it.
Is that,
when it comes to testing this is great,
you're gonna see just how great this is.
In fact, I think when you start writing
the test, I think the only thing in
Angular that you have that you might wanna
write a test for is the module itself.
Everything else can be tested outside
of Angular, cuz it doesn't need to be.
If you look at the way you
wrote our files, right,
if you go look at blog.controller.js,
do you see anything with Angular in here?
It's just regular JavaScript, right.
We're can just test this
as regular JavaScript.
If it start having to have things
injected into it, that's cool.
We can mark that stuff out, or
we can put the real thing in there,
it dosen't matter.
But we don't have to
tell Angular about it.
We don't have to hey,
Angular can you give me that controller
that I told you about already.
You don't have to,
it's gonna test this thing right here.
Or you might have to if you start
doing like, end-to-end tests and
you will for sure have to do that,
but unit testing, no.
Don't have to,
this is the benefit of it because,
I'll be honest testing my Angular
is not easy, it is not easy.
If you don't know the digests very well
and you start messing asynchronous things,
you can forget about it.
You're not gonna be able to test well,
and you just won't test it at all.
So because we made those models and
made that decision, testing is gonna be so
easy and so legit and
you also get to be able to be like really
stringent about the things you test.
I was telling you earlier,
you can test your HTML now.
You'll be able to run your HTML through
a regex, and you're gonna be like, uh-huh,
I'm just gonna check to make sure
you put a VM in front of all these.
That's crazy but it's legit, cuz now,
people really can't change anything.
And it's like, I just wanna make sure that
you actually used this word right here.
I want to make sure I use posts, right?
And you can test all that stuff, whereas
before, you could have done it before, but
it would be really,
really hard to do that stuff.
Use jquery to fetch this file,
then you gotta wait, it's just like.
No, this stuff happens immediately.
So that's really cool that
we made that decision.
So now we can test the individual
modules without loading the entire
application as well.
So, we don't have to load up Angular app,
we can just load up blog, and
it's totally fine because
it works just by itself.
So, for us to be testing we're going
to use a combination of tools,
because we're gonna also be
running our test in ES2015.
We're not gonna write our test in ES5.
Nobody wants to do that,
we're using ES2015 now.
So we wanna write our test
in ES2015 as well, and
it requires an additional set up.
So we're gonna need webpack for
this as well.
So the tools we're gonna be
using are karma, mocha and chai.
Only because this is my standard setup.
I use other stuff too, but this is
mostly what I like, karma no brainer.
Mocha, some people use jasmine.
I like chai so I use mocha,
I like my own search and library.
So like with our source code,
webpack will create like
a bundled file of all our tests.
So we have bundle.js
with all our source code.
It's gonna do the exact same thing for
all of our test files,
it's gonna bundle it and gonna give it
to whatever karma tells it to go to,
which in our case will be Chrome.
Does anybody know how karma works?
No, anybody use karma?
So, karma is not a tests framework,
mocha's the thing that's testing it.
Karma is not a browser either,
it's just this bridge between
your test runner which is mocha, and
your terminal and some browsers.
And what it does is it will take your
code and whatever thing you're using,
in this case mocha, send it to
a browser whatever one you choose or
whatever browsers you choose,
Chrome, Phantomjs, whatever.
And it will test it in the browser and
send the results back to your
terminal via websockets.
That's what it does.
So the other alternative is that you
have to write like HTML inside and
run it in the browser yourself.
This thing will run it in the browser for
you and report the results on a terminal
with proper exit codes and
stuff like that, in real time.
So it's pretty dope.
Google bought them out.
They used to be called Testacular and now
they are called karma for obvious reasons.
>> Students: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: So
our other code will be bundled and
tested through karma and stuff.
So this is why we're doing a lot
of repeat code as far as like
third party modules like ui-router.
So again because we're gonna be
importing these models individually,
we need to make sure that they register
their own dependencies like ui-router.
So we go import blog into a test and
we mark blog out and Angular runs it,
and it's like, I don't know what state
provider is, it's because we didn't put
ui-router in blog, and it still worked
because app had ui-router in it.
So it worked because we loaded up app,
but now we're not loading up app,
we're only loading up blog.
So now it needs to know about ui-router.
So that's where that redundancy comes in,
but it's very, very helpful in my opinion.
So, if we have some code that
was created out of angular,
like our controls and
stuff, again like I said,
we can just test it, completely
separate it, it's really awesome.
So yeah we also did a great job of like
isolating everything, and now we can go
deeper in to all cool stuff and have
much more assertions that we could ES5.
Thank you Jen.
Yeah.
So
things like running a template
through regedit stuff like I said,
are super fancy and super easy.